■フォントの構成

このフォントは「自家製フォント工房 by MM.」様が提供している Apache License 2.0 のオープンソースフォント「源柔ゴシック」にオリジナルの平仮名・カタカナを収録したものです。
なお「源柔ゴシック」はオープンソースフォントである「源ノ角ゴシック」（Apache License 2.0）および「M+ OUTLINE FONTS」が元になっています。
「源ノ角ゴシック」からの変更点は以下のとおりです。
--
［源ノ角ゴシックから源真ゴシック・源柔ゴシックへの変更点］OpenTypeからTrueTypeにフォント形式を変更していただきました。
［　〃　］行間および縦書機能を調整していただきました。
［　〃　］源ノ角ゴシックにない文字をM+ OUTLINE FONTSのフォントで補っていただきました。
［　〃　］「くの字点」（清音・濁音）を１文字分にしていただきました。
［　〃　］すべての文字にラウンド処理を掛けていただきました。
［源ノ角ゴシック・源真ゴシック・源柔ゴシックから本フォント「ほのか丸ゴシック」への変更点］フォント名を「ほのか丸ゴシック」に変更しました。
［　〃　］仮想ボディ縦幅を調整しました。
［　〃　］ひらがな・およびカタカナ及び長音部分の文字をオリジナルのデザインに変更しました（協力：フォント910）。

■著作権情報

フォントデータ内の「源ノ角ゴシック」由来の文字グリフの著作権は、Adobe が所有しています。
フォントデータ内の「M+ OUTLINE FONTS」由来の文字グリフの著作権は、M+ FONTS PROJECT が所有しています。
フォントデータ内の「源柔ゴシック」由来の文字グリフの著作権は、自家製フォント工房が所有しています。
フォントデータ内のひらがな・カタカナ・長音の文字グリフの著作権は、「HONOKA Project」が所有しています。
--
Copyright(C) 2014 Adobe Systems Incorporated. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright(C) 2012 M+ FONTS PROJECT
Copyright(C) 2014 Jikasei Font Kobo by MM.
Copyright(C) 2014 HONOKA Project
--
「M+ OUTLINE FONTS」のライセンスは、ダウンロードフォルダー内の「mplus-TESTFLIGHT-057」フォルダ内をご確認ください。
「源ノ角ゴシック」および「源柔ゴシック」のライセンスは、ダウンロードフォルダー内の「Apache License 2.0.txt」をご覧ください。

■商用利用について

可能です。なお、「源ノ角ゴシック」「M+ OUTLINE FONTS」「源柔ゴシック」フォントのライセンスのもとにあることをご留意ください。

■免責事項

フォントのダウンロードおよびインストールはご利用される方の責任において行っていただきます。フォントの使用について、いかなる保証も行いません。発生したいかなる損害（データ損失等を含む）についても、提供側は責任を負いません。またサポートについてはすべて未保証とさせていただきます。

■フォント形式・動作環境

TrueTypeフォント（プロポーショナルフォント）
Windows 95以降、Mac OS X 10.3以降
※ただし該当環境においてもすべてのアプリケーションで正常に動作するとは限りません。

■謝辞

「源ノ角ゴシック」「M+フォント」「源柔ゴシック」の制作者様・提供者様に心よりお礼申し上げます。 

HONOKA Project
http://font.gloomy.jp/

=================================================================
M+ FONTS
Copyright (C) 2002-2014 M+ FONTS PROJECT

これらのフォントはフリー（自由な）ソフトウエアです。
あらゆる改変の有無に関わらず、また商業的な利用であっても、自由にご利用、
複製、再配布することができますが、全て無保証とさせていただきます。

http://mplus-fonts.sourceforge.jp/

=================================================================
Apache License

Version 2.0, January 2004

http://www.apache.org/licenses/

TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR USE, REPRODUCTION, AND DISTRIBUTION

1. Definitions.

"License" shall mean the terms and conditions for use, reproduction,
and distribution as defined by Sections 1 through 9 of this document.

"Licensor" shall mean the copyright owner or entity authorized by the
copyright owner that is granting the License.

"Legal Entity" shall mean the union of the acting entity and all other
entities that control, are controlled by, or are under common control
with that entity. For the purposes of this definition, "control" means
(i) the power, direct or indirect, to cause the direction or
management of such entity, whether by contract or otherwise, or (ii)
ownership of fifty percent (50%) or more of the outstanding shares, or
(iii) beneficial ownership of such entity.

"You" (or "Your") shall mean an individual or Legal Entity exercising
permissions granted by this License.

"Source" form shall mean the preferred form for making modifications,
including but not limited to software source code, documentation
source, and configuration files.

"Object" form shall mean any form resulting from mechanical
transformation or translation of a Source form, including but not
limited to compiled object code, generated documentation, and
conversions to other media types.

"Work" shall mean the work of authorship, whether in Source or Object
form, made available under the License, as indicated by a copyright
notice that is included in or attached to the work (an example is
provided in the Appendix below).

"Derivative Works" shall mean any work, whether in Source or Object
form, that is based on (or derived from) the Work and for which the
editorial revisions, annotations, elaborations, or other modifications
represent, as a whole, an original work of authorship. For the
purposes of this License, Derivative Works shall not include works
that remain separable from, or merely link (or bind by name) to the
interfaces of, the Work and Derivative Works thereof.

"Contribution" shall mean any work of authorship, including the
original version of the Work and any modifications or additions to
that Work or Derivative Works thereof, that is intentionally submitted
to Licensor for inclusion in the Work by the copyright owner or by an
individual or Legal Entity authorized to submit on behalf of the
copyright owner. For the purposes of this definition, "submitted"
means any form of electronic, verbal, or written communication sent to
the Licensor or its representatives, including but not limited to
communication on electronic mailing lists, source code control
systems, and issue tracking systems that are managed by, or on behalf
of, the Licensor for the purpose of discussing and improving the Work,
but excluding communication that is conspicuously marked or otherwise
designated in writing by the copyright owner as "Not a Contribution."

"Contributor" shall mean Licensor and any individual or Legal Entity
on behalf of whom a Contribution has been received by Licensor and
subsequently incorporated within the Work.

2. Grant of Copyright License. Subject to the terms and conditions of
this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual,
worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable
copyright license to reproduce, prepare Derivative Works of, publicly
display, publicly perform, sublicense, and distribute the Work and
such Derivative Works in Source or Object form.

3. Grant of Patent License. Subject to the terms and conditions of
this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual,
worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable (except
as stated in this section) patent license to make, have made, use,
offer to sell, sell, import, and otherwise transfer the Work, where
such license applies only to those patent claims licensable by such
Contributor that are necessarily infringed by their Contribution(s)
alone or by combination of their Contribution(s) with the Work to
which such Contribution(s) was submitted. If You institute patent
litigation against any entity (including a cross-claim or counterclaim
in a lawsuit) alleging that the Work or a Contribution incorporated
within the Work constitutes direct or contributory patent
infringement, then any patent licenses granted to You under this
License for that Work shall terminate as of the date such litigation
is filed.

4. Redistribution. You may reproduce and distribute copies of the Work
or Derivative Works thereof in any medium, with or without
modifications, and in Source or Object form, provided that You meet
the following conditions:

You must give any other recipients of the Work or Derivative Works a
copy of this License; and

You must cause any modified files to carry prominent notices stating
that You changed the files; and

You must retain, in the Source form of any Derivative Works that You
distribute, all copyright, patent, trademark, and attribution notices
from the Source form of the Work, excluding those notices that do not
pertain to any part of the Derivative Works; and

If the Work includes a "NOTICE" text file as part of its distribution,
then any Derivative Works that You distribute must include a readable
copy of the attribution notices contained within such NOTICE file,
excluding those notices that do not pertain to any part of the
Derivative Works, in at least one of the following places: within a
NOTICE text file distributed as part of the Derivative Works; within
the Source form or documentation, if provided along with the
Derivative Works; or, within a display generated by the Derivative
Works, if and wherever such third-party notices normally appear. The
contents of the NOTICE file are for informational purposes only and do
not modify the License. You may add Your own attribution notices
within Derivative Works that You distribute, alongside or as an
addendum to the NOTICE text from the Work, provided that such
additional attribution notices cannot be construed as modifying the
License.

You may add Your own copyright statement to Your modifications and may
provide additional or different license terms and conditions for use,
reproduction, or distribution of Your modifications, or for any such
Derivative Works as a whole, provided Your use, reproduction, and
distribution of the Work otherwise complies with the conditions stated
in this License.

5. Submission of Contributions. Unless You explicitly state otherwise,
any Contribution intentionally submitted for inclusion in the Work by
You to the Licensor shall be under the terms and conditions of this
License, without any additional terms or conditions. Notwithstanding
the above, nothing herein shall supersede or modify the terms of any
separate license agreement you may have executed with Licensor
regarding such Contributions.

6. Trademarks. This License does not grant permission to use the trade
names, trademarks, service marks, or product names of the Licensor,
except as required for reasonable and customary use in describing the
origin of the Work and reproducing the content of the NOTICE file.

7. Disclaimer of Warranty. Unless required by applicable law or agreed
to in writing, Licensor provides the Work (and each Contributor
provides its Contributions) on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR
CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied, including, without
limitation, any warranties or conditions of TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT,
MERCHANTABILITY, or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. You are solely
responsible for determining the appropriateness of using or
redistributing the Work and assume any risks associated with Your
exercise of permissions under this License.

8. Limitation of Liability. In no event and under no legal theory,
whether in tort (including negligence), contract, or otherwise, unless
required by applicable law (such as deliberate and grossly negligent
acts) or agreed to in writing, shall any Contributor be liable to You
for damages, including any direct, indirect, special, incidental, or
consequential damages of any character arising as a result of this
License or out of the use or inability to use the Work (including but
not limited to damages for loss of goodwill, work stoppage, computer
failure or malfunction, or any and all other commercial damages or
losses), even if such Contributor has been advised of the possibility
of such damages.

9. Accepting Warranty or Additional Liability. While redistributing
the Work or Derivative Works thereof, You may choose to offer, and
charge a fee for, acceptance of support, warranty, indemnity, or other
liability obligations and/or rights consistent with this
License. However, in accepting such obligations, You may act only on
Your own behalf and on Your sole responsibility, not on behalf of any
other Contributor, and only if You agree to indemnify, defend, and
hold each Contributor harmless for any liability incurred by, or
claims asserted against, such Contributor by reason of your accepting
any such warranty or additional liability.

